doc: core peering (#4926)
scionproto/scion: doc/control-plane.rst

PCBs do not traverse peering links.
Instead, available peering links are announced along with a regular path in the individual AS

> entries of PCBs during *intra-AS* beaconing. Peering links are not announced in *inter-AS* beaconing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
entries of PCBs during *intra-ISD* beaconing. Peering links are not announced in *inter-ISD* beaconing.
```

   (labeled "c"). All created forwarding paths in cases 1a-1e traverse the ISD
   core(s), whereas the paths in cases 2-4 do not enter the ISD core.

Peering Links in Core ASes
--------------------------

This section distinguished peering links and peering shortcuts:

- Peering link: A physical link between two ASes.
- Peering shortcut: A peering link that is used when constructing a full path.

All ASes may have physical peering links. However, for segment combinations, peering
shortcuts are only allowed (and announced) between ASes that are on up- segment or down-segments.
This trivially allows peering shortcuts between non-core ASes and ASes.

Whenever an AS is queried for up- or down-segments that terminate in that same AS,

> and if the AS has any peering links, it will return a "zero"-hop segment that contains only

Author: ```suggestion
and if the AS has any peering links, it will return a single-AS segment that contains only
```

the AS itself and its peering links.

This ensures that, if the core ASes have peering links, any client will have at least one up- and one
down-segment (even if source and destination AS are core ASes).

> The peering metadata from these zero-hop-up/down-segments, or any other up- or down-segments

Author: ```suggestion
The peering metadata from these single-AS up/down-segments, or any other up- or down-segments
```

   (labeled "c"). All created forwarding paths in cases 1a-1e traverse the ISD
   core(s), whereas the paths in cases 2-4 do not enter the ISD core.

Peering Links in Core ASes
--------------------------

This section distinguished peering links and peering shortcuts:

- Peering link: A physical link between two ASes.
- Peering shortcut: A peering link that is used when constructing a full path.

All ASes may have physical peering links. However, for segment combinations, peering
shortcuts are only allowed (and announced) between ASes that are on up- segment or down-segments.
This trivially allows peering shortcuts between non-core ASes and ASes.

Whenever an AS is queried for up- or down-segments that terminate in that same AS,
and if the AS has any peering links, it will return a "zero"-hop segment that contains only

> the AS itself and its peering links.

Author: @oncilla My change seems to have dropped your comments. I rewrote this section, do you think it is clearer now?

Reviewer: I think this is more understandable.

I am unsure about calling them "zero"-hop segments though, because technically, they have exactly one hop.

To bad one-hop path is a thing (and a misnomer, given it has two hops 🤦), which would make calling these segments "one-hop segments" even more confusing.

Any chance we can find a better name?
Maybe "single-AS segment"?

Author: Good point, yes, I chose zero-hop because OneHop was already taken :-)
I like "single-AS".

   (labeled "c"). All created forwarding paths in cases 1a-1e traverse the ISD
   core(s), whereas the paths in cases 2-4 do not enter the ISD core.

Peering Links in Core ASes
--------------------------

This section distinguished peering links and peering shortcuts:

- Peering link: A physical link between two ASes.
- Peering shortcut: A peering link that is used when constructing a full path.

All ASes may have physical peering links. However, for segment combinations, peering
shortcuts are only allowed (and announced) between ASes that are on UP segment or DOWN segments.
This trivially allows peering shortcuts between non-core ASes and ASes.

> Peering shortcuts However, for segment combination,

Reviewer: I am unsure if this explanation will not further confuse the uninitiated reader.

It might be easier to understand if we just describe what the role of the core segment is in such scenarios. In the end, it is simply a mechanism to discover the source ASes for the candidate down segments.

Author: @oncilla I'm not sure what you mean by "role of the core segment"?

Anyway, I rephrased the whole section, maybe it is better now?

peering links with core ASes can only be used *indirectly* and only for the first and last AS in a core segment.
Indirect means:

> - Any core AS that has peering links returns, when queried for an UP or DOWN segment,

Reviewer: This is imprecise. A core as returns these segments when queried for an up/down segment with the source/destination being the core AS themselves.

Author: Fixed.

  a "zero"-hop segment that contains only itself and its peering links.

> - Client must always query for UP and DOWN links, even when they are located in a core AS.

Reviewer: The client must do so, if the source or destination of the path is core.
Where the client is located, is irrelevant.

Author: Fixed

As a result, if the core ASes have peering links, any client will have at least one UP and one DOWN
segment (even if source and destination AS are core ASes).
These UP and DOWN segments, or any other UP or DOWN segments if they are available, can be used to
create a peering shortcut.

FAQ: Why do core segments not contain peering metadata?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> AS may use peering link instead of a public link if they

Reviewer: That sentence doesn't read well. How about this?

> Peering links enable two AS to route traffic between their respective downstream ASes while explicitly restricting global transit. Embedding this peering data within a core segment, which inherently facilitates transit, would directly contradict the non-transit nature of peering.

Author: Done.

does not want the link to be used for traffic that transits the ISD.
The peering link allows usage to be limited to traffic that starts or ends in the local AS or one of its child ASes.
If peering links were announced withe core segment metadata, they could be used on

> core segments that *transit* the local AS.

Author: ```suggestion
Peering links enable two ASes to route traffic between each other and their respective downstream ASes while restricting global transit. Embedding this peering data within a core segment, which inherently facilitates transit, would directly contradict the non-transit nature of peering.
```
@oncilla Thanks for the suggestion, how about this?

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!
